What’s in a cosmopolitan cocktail? It’s easier to make than you think! This vibrant pink drink is perfect for celebrations of all kinds.It’s got a brilliant pink color and tangy, refreshing flavor: yes, it’s a Cosmo! A Cosmopolitan cocktail, to be exact. This great cocktail is ready to spice up your next gathering, be it a dinner party or drinks on the patio with friends. It was at its height in the 1990’s (hello, Sex and the City) and sometimes makes purists roll their eyes. BUT! The Cosmo is a legit sour cocktail that’s worth drinking: the beautiful color is reason in itself. Here, Alex and I have put a modern spin on it. Here’s how to make it!What’s in a Cosmopolitan cocktail?
A Cosmopolitan Cocktail is a classic alcoholic drink that makes the list of International Bartender Association’s IBA official cocktails. The history of the Cosmo is disputed: some claim it was invented in the 1930’s, others in the 1970’s. (Read all about it if you want to geek out.)

What’s in a Cosmo? The classic version of this cocktail uses Citron vodka, cranberry juice (usually sweetened), Cointreau, and lime. Why make our version of this classic? Keep reading.

Why to make our Cosmopolitan cocktail recipe
Alex and I have a long list of cocktail recipes that we’ve created for you: the home cook! Our drink recipes are easy to make so you don’t have to be a cocktail expert! We have lots of versions of classic cocktails, from gin fizz to whiskey sour to French 75 to Moscow mule. Why make our spin on the Cosmopolitan cocktail?

It’s easy! We’ve paired it down to the essentials. Instead of having to buy a whole new type of vodka, you can use standard (more on that below).
It’s not too sweet, and you can customize the sugar level! Versions you’ll order at a bar have varying amounts of sugar: in this recipe you can make it your own. (More on that below, too.)Do you have to use citron vodka in a Cosmo?
A Cosmopolitan cocktail purist would say that a “real” Cosmo uses citron vodka. It’s a lemon-flavored vodka that brings a nice citrus zing. However, for our recipe we wanted to use ingredients everyone would have in their pantry. (We’re kind of into keeping things pretty simple.) So here, we’ve used standard vodka plus lemon juice. If you have citron vodka on hand already, absolutely use it here! You can omit the lemon juice.A Cosmo with unsweetened cranberry juice
Traditional versions of a Cosmopolitan cocktail use sweetened cranberry juice. But for our version, we used 100% cranberry juice (unsweetened)! There are lots of variations of cranberry juice on the shelf, and many of them have added sugar. Bottles labeled cranberry juice cocktail have added sugars or high-fructose corn syrup for extra sweetness. Why use unsweetened cranberry juice?

It has less sugar, and you can customize the sweetness. Use 100% juice and you can customize the sweetness of the drink by adding maple syrup or simple syrup. We like using maple syrup as a sweetener because it’s all natural and provides a gentler sweetness.
The color is brighter. The color of this Cosmo is electric pink because 100% juice has a deeper color.Using 100% juice means you can sweeten to taste.
The sugar level in a Cosmopolitan cocktail usually comes from using sweetened cranberry juice. Alex and I like our drinks on the tart side, and don’t like drinking a lot of added sugars. We also had 100% cranberry juice on hand from our cranberry champagne cocktail.

The 100% cranberry juice makes a crisp and tart Cosmo drink. We’ve specified to add 1 teaspoon of maple syrup or simple syrup, but if you’d like, you can make it more tart or a little more sweet. Alex and I prefer using maple syrup because it provides a gentler sweetness, and we use it in lots of our recipes. But if you have simple syrup on hand you can use that too.What other drinks use cranberry juice?
Want to use up that leftover cranberry juice? There are lots of great cranberry cocktail recipes to make with it! Here are a few ideas:

Madras The Madras features vodka, cranberry and orange juice for tart and tangy drink. It’s very similar to the Cosmo!
Vodka Cranberry One of the easiest cocktails there is: vodka and cranberry juice on the rocks with a spritz of lime.
Cranberry Champagne Cocktail Instead of vodka, add a bit of champagne and you’ve got a killer festive cocktail! Or try the Cranberry Mimosa for brunch.
Rum & Cranberry uses rum, Cointreau and lime juice for a sweet tart, balanced drink.
Sea Breeze or Bay Breeze The Breezes are classic and refreshing cocktails, fit for sipping al fresco, a laid back happy hour or as a brunch drink. Sea Breeze features grapefruit juice, and Bay Breeze the tropical flavor of pineapple.
Disney+
WelcomWhen to serve a Cosmopolitan cocktail
This Cosmopolitan cocktail is fun and celebratory. It’s great as a:

Bridal shower drink or bachelorette party drink
Girls night drink
Gender reveal party drink (this pink drink is perfect!)
Happy hour drink
Dinner party drink
Christmas or holiday drink
Romantic dinner drink
Brunch drink (Mother’s Day, etc)Instructions
Place the vodka, cranberry juice, Cointreau, lemon juice, and syrup in a cocktail shaker with ice. Shake 15 seconds until cold. Strain the liquid into a martini glass.
Squeeze with the lime wedge and serve, garnished with a lime wheel if desired. 