Here are the keys to the very best gin and tonic, a classic 2-ingredient cocktail! A few secrets take this botanical drink over the top.
What’s more refreshing than a gin and tonic? Its crisp, botanical flavor is straightforward but at the same time intriguing: a feat using only 2 ingredients! It’s no wonder that this is one of the world’s popular cocktails. We’ve researched to gather a few tips about making the perfect gin and tonic. Keep reading for our secrets.
What’s in a gin and tonic?
Called a “G and T” or gin tonic in some countries, this refreshing drink is made in countries all around the world. The Gin and Tonic was invented in the 1850’s by British soldiers, who mixed gin with their tonic water as a way to drink quinine (which was thought to cure malaria). Tonic water of today no longer has quinine, but the drink stuck around! Naturally, it’s made of two things:

1 part gin
2 parts tonic water
The gin and tonic is very popular in Spain, called a Gin-Tonic (pronounced “Zcheen tonic”). I studied abroad in Madrid years ago so to me, this drink has a nostalgia that reminds me of sipping in Spain. Speaking of Spain, we’re taking cues from this country to bring you tips on how to make the best gin and tonic.
Tip 1: Use a stemmed glass, not a highball.
Using a stemmed glass to serve a gin and tonic comes from the Spanish tradition (you can use any balloon glass or coupe). Traditionally this drink is served in a highball glass. But serving it in a stemmed glass does two things:

It keeps the gin and tonic ice cold. Your hand doesn’t touch the drink and melt the ice, making the drink stay ultra cold.
It gives you a bigger whiff of the aromas of the drink. A wider opening helps you to appreciate both the gin and the aromas of your garnishes! Speaking of…
Here’s the glasses we used for these photographs! Get them: Gin and Tonic Cups
Tip 2: Add fun garnishes that accentuate the gin!
Another cue we took from the Spanish gin and tonic tradition: use lots of garnishes that accentuate the gin flavor! According to this source, the use of vegetables and herbs to highlight the botanicals is popular. Here are some ideas to get your creative juices flowing:

Lime or lemon wedge
Cucumber slice
Mint leaves
Orange peel
Juniper berries (see notes below)
Blood orange slices
Rosemary
Tip 3: Pour the tonic water over a spoon.
One last tip to making the best gin and tonic! When you’re adding the tonic water, pour it over a spoon into the drink. This is known to make it more bubbly. Now, we don’t have any scientific proof of this! But why not.

Here’s a video of a Spanish bartender demonstrating these gin and tonic tips (sound on only if you speak Spanish!).
Juniper berries bring a unique flair!
If you’re a big “gin and tonic” fan, a fun way to step up your game is garnishing with juniper berries. Why? Gin is made with juniper berries, and that’s the predominant flavor in this liquor. So if you’re a cocktail nerd, grab some juniper berries for your G and T’s. They’re hard to find at most grocery stores, so they’re easiest to find online. Get some: Juniper berries!

Variations on the gin and tonic
As with any classic cocktail, there are lots of variations on the G and T. You can muddle any sort of herbs or fruit and add to your G&T, or mix it up with other juices or spirits. Here are some ideas:

Evans: Garnish this drink with both lemon and lime, and it’s the Evans cocktail.
Tequila: Use tequila for a Tequila and Tonic.
Rum: Use rum for a Rum and Tonic.
Vodka: Opt for vodka for a Vodka Tonic.
Whiskey: Add whiskey for a Whiskey Tonic.
Lillet Blanc: Add Lillet Blanc for a Lillet G&T Cocktail.
Blood orange: Add blood orange juice for a Blood Orange G&T.
Pomegranate: Add grenadine or pomegranate juice and it’s a Pomegranate Gin and Tonic.
Grapefruit: Add grapefruit juice for a Grapefruit Gin and Tonic.
Happy hour drink
Dinner party drink
Summer drink
Late night drinks drink
Guys or girls night drink
Cocktail hour drink


