Here’s the best margarita recipe you’ll find: zingy, clear, and classic. It’s simple and uses only 3 ingredients. Many restaurants and pre-made mixes use loads of sugar, but you won’t miss it here! This classic drink is perfectly tangy and balanced. Make an individual drink or a pitcher for a night with friends.
What’s in a margarita? 3 simple ingredients!
There’s nothing I love more than a basket of chips and salsa and a margarita in my hand. At restaurants and bars, I tend to ask the bartender if they can “make it tart.” Little did I know, a true margarita drink contains no added simple syrup! That’s right: just the sweetness of the orange liqueur. This makes the very best margarita recipe you’ll find.

This popular Mexican cocktail was invented in the 1930s. It’s a classic sour cocktail that’s on the list of International Bartender Association’s IBA official cocktails. This means that there’s an “official” definition. Here’s what’s in a margarita:
1 ½ ounces tequila
1 ounce Cointreau or Triple Sec
¾ ounce lime juice
Make a classic margarita on the rocks: 3 simple steps!
Now that we know the ingredients…how to make a margarita? This simple margarita recipe is “on the rocks,” meaning that it’s served over ice. It’s incredibly easy to make; here’s how!

Rim the glass with salt. A classic margarita has salt on the rim. Why? The salt enhances the sweet and sour flavors in the drink.
Shake in a cocktail shaker. Take that tequila, Cointreau and lime juice and shake it together in a cocktail shaker with 4 ice cubes.
Strain into a glass and add ice. Strain the drink into a glass and add ice. What kind of glass to use for the best margarita? The margarita drink is often served in a lowball or Old Fashioned glass as you see here, though of course the classic curved margarita glass works too.
What’s the best tequila for margaritas?
Many sources say tequila blanco is best for margaritas. Tequila blanco (or “new” tequila) has been aged less than 2 months and has that classic tequila burn. But tequila reposado adds an intriguing depth of flavor: it’s our top pick. Here’s our preference for the best tequila for margaritas:
The very best margarita recipe, in our opinion, features Cointreau as the orange liqueur. Cointreau has a orange perfume flavor that’s well balanced between bitter and sweet, while Triple Sec can have a more harsh flavor. (If you’re not sure whether you want to buy a bottle, there are lots of Cointreau drinks like the Sidecar, Lemon Drop Martini, and Cosmopolitan.) But you can use Triple Sec if it’s all you have!

Fun fact: “triple sec” means triple distilled: it’s actually not a brand name. Cointreau is a type of triple sec: it’s triple distilled. For more, go to Cointreau vs Triple Sec.
Now, let’s talk about the glass rim in this classic margarita recipe! The best type of salt to use is kosher salt or flaky sea salt because it has a nice chunky texture. Or try our Homemade Margarita Salt: the orange and lime zest makes the glass look perfectly look festive! Here are our tips to making the perfect rim:

Spread the salt on a plate in an even layer.
Take a lime wedge and cut a notch in the middle: then slide it around the rim of the glass. This perfectly moistens the glass rim without having to use your fingers!
To rim the glass, you’ll want the salt on the outside of the glass only, not the inside where it can fall into the drink. To do this, tilt the glass so that only the outside edge goes into the salt. Then shake off any loose salt into the sink.
How to take your simple margarita on the rocks over the top? Use clear ice. Clear ice is artisanal ice used in cocktails: it’s crystal clear and can be cut into beautiful organic shapes. It’s the best way to take a cocktail from good to glamorous! Try to have a batch ready before cocktail hour because this ice truly steals the show. All you need is a small cooler or clear ice maker and 24 hours. Go to How to Make Clear Ice for more.