Here’s a classic mojito recipe, perfectly balanced with lime, rum and fresh mint! This iconic Cuban cocktail is refreshing and just sweet enough.
Is there any cocktail more refreshing than a mojito? Of all the classic cocktails, this iconic Cuban drink is one of the greats. Here’s a mojito recipe that’s spot on perfection: not too sweet, bubbly, and minty fresh. Like the margarita, the true version has less sugar and more nuance than what it’s become in bars and pre-made mixes. It’s perfect for sipping on the patio, and just as good in the dead of winter when you’re dreaming of the beach. Here’s exactly how to make a simple mojito!
How to make a mojito?
The mojito is a sour cocktail that originates from Havana, Cuba. The origins of the Mojito are cloudy: some say it was invented in the 1500s, others in the 1800’s with the birth of the Bacardi rum company. In any case, its place as an iconic Cuban cocktail was solidified by the 1930’s when Ernest Hemingway helped to popularize the drink.

It makes the list of International Bartender Association’s IBA official cocktails. This means that it has an “exact” definition, though of course it is interpreted differently by bartenders all over the world! Here’s what’s in a classic mojito recipe:

Fresh mint
Lime juice
Rum
Simple syrup
Soda water
To make it, you’ll simply muddle mint, add the lime juice, rum, and simple syrup, and shake it in a cocktail shaker. Then top off the glass with club soda before serving. Wondering how to muddle? Keep reading.
The right way to muddle mint
Muddling is gently mashing herbs or fruits to release their juices. This technique is often used in cocktails because it helps the flavors incorporate better than if you just threw a mint sprig right into the drink. Is there a right way to muddle? In fact, there is! Here’s how to muddle mint…the right way:

Place the mint leaves in the bottom of a cocktail shaker. If you don’t have one, you can use a large metal cup or bowl.
Using a wooden cocktail muddler or unfinished wooden spoon, gently mash the mint a few times to release the juices. Do not mash the mint with a lot of force! The key to muddling is a light touch.
A mojito that’s just sweet enough
The best part about this mojito recipe: it’s just sweet enough! So many mojito recipes can be like drinking sugar water. This one is sweetened just enough to be refreshingly tart, but not too sweet. Of course if you like your drinks sweeter, feel fee to add more sweetener to taste. There are two options for sweetening this mojito recipe, depending on your preferences:

Simple syrup: Ultra classic is to use simple syrup! You can buy it or it’s easy to make at home. Here’s how to make simple syrup.
Maple syrup: Pure maple syrup is a fantastic natural sweetener for cocktails! It has a nuanced flavor and gentle way of sweetening drinks. It doesn’t taste like maple: it just adds a natural sweetness.
The best ice for a mojito: crushed or cubes?
One last thing about this simple mojito before we get to that recipe! Many purists argue over the right ice to use in a mojito: crushed ice, or cubed. In our research, we’ve found this: crushed ice melts faster. So if sparkling water is added as part of a drink, you should use ice cubes, not crushed ice that might water it down more.

Using that theory: since soda water is added to this mojito as part of the cocktail, you should use ice cubes and not crushed ice! Now you know. Of course as with any cocktail “rule”, you can break it at any time. If you prefer crushed ice: be our guest! It would be just as tasty. (But a few cocktails where crushed ice is a must…Vodka Cranberry, Berry Vodka Smash and Whiskey Smash!)
Mojito recipe variations!
Here are a few cocktails that are similar to the Mojito and some fun variations! Make these Mojito recipes when you want to mix it up:

Mojito Pitcher Make 8 servings for a crowd!
Frozen Mojito Try it as a frozen cocktail for an icy, refreshing spin
Virgin Mojito Try it as a non alcoholic mocktail.
Strawberry, Blueberry, Blackberry or Raspberry Mojito Muddle fresh berries with the mint for a new spin.
Peach or Watermelon Mojito These fruity spins are king in the summer.
Pineapple, Mango, or Coconut Mojito These spins add a tropical flair.
Vodka, Gin, or Tequila Mojito For if you run out of rum!
When to serve a mojito
A mojito is always fun and festive, perfect for parties and entertaining, or a laid back evening sipping on your own! It’s great as a:

Summer drink
Bridal shower drink or bachelorette party drink
Girls night drink
Happy hour drink
Dinner party drink
Brunch drink (Mother’s Day, etc)
