You’ve got the copper mugs, the ginger beer, and the vodka: now all you need is a recipe. Here’s how to make a classic Moscow mule!
It’s bubbly, tangy, looks impressive, and goes down easy. Meet the classic Moscow mule! This drink was invented in the 1940’s, but it’s having a moment now, too. It’s got only 3 ingredients and takes 3 minutes to make: perfect for parties or a lazy evening on the patio. Outside of the margarita, it might be one of our favorite drinks of all time. Here’s how to make this refreshing vodka cocktail!
What’s in a Moscow mule?
A Moscow mule is a classic cocktail born in the 1940’s, made with vodka and ginger beer. It’s part of a family of cocktails called bucks: cocktails made with liquor, ginger ale or ginger beer, and citrus juice. So, the drink could also be called a vodka buck! This classic cocktail is on the list of International Bartender Association’s IBA official cocktails. The official definition of a Moscow mule is:

Vodka
Ginger beer
Lime juice

How to make a mule
Because a Moscow mule is all about the carbonation in the ginger beer, this drink is not mixed in a cocktail shaker. To preserve the carbonation, simply mix it right in the mug and served over ice. You don’t even need a cocktail shaker! This makes it one of the easiest cocktail recipes you can find. Here’s what to do:

Build the drink in a mug. Pour 2 ounces vodka, ½ ounce lime juice, and 4 ounces ginger beer into a copper mug.
Garnish. Add ice cubes, and garnish with lime. It’s that simple!
Why a copper mug? Keep reading…

Why are Moscow mules served in copper mugs?
Moscow mules are traditionally served in a copper cup or copped mug. Does it have to be served in copper? There are a few reasons for this drinkware choice:

Copper keeps the drink cool in a different way than glass. Copper immediately takes on the temperature of the drink. The sensation of taking a sip of the drink with a cool copper rim makes it taste even colder!
Copper mugs are traditional. According to this source, the Moscow mule was invented in the 1940’s by Smirnoff executive John Martin and his friend businessman John Morgan, as a ploy to sell more vodka, ginger beer, and copper mugs. People in Hollywood fell in love with it, and there were lots of images of celebrities drinking mules in copper mugs. It caught on, and it’s still the traditional way to drink this cocktail.
Do you have to serve a mule in copper? No! The Moscow mule tastes good in any type of cup or glass. Use a lowball glass, jar, a standard mug: whatever strikes your fancy.
Where to find copper mugs for Moscow mules
The best choice for copper mugs for a mule? Solid copper! This is the only way to get that perfect refreshing cold sip (other metals with a copper veneer don’t work). The mugs we used in these photos are out of stock, but we recommend these similar solid copper Moscow mule mugs.

Moscow mule copper mugs make great gifts, especially as wedding gifts for couples who love to make great cocktails!

Best vodka for a Moscow mule
What’s the best vodka for a Moscow mule? A rule of thumb: use a mid-priced vodka: avoid very inexpensive or high-end vodka. Why? The ginger beer and lime flavors in a Moscow mule are very strong and can overpower a great vodka. But you don’t want to go too bottom shelf: low quality vodka can ruin the drink. Avoid vodka that is very cheap ($10 to $15 per 750 ml bottle range). Brands like Tito’s and Smirnoff work well here, as well as other mid range brands like Grey Goose.

Best ginger beer for a Moscow mule
There are so many ginger beer brands on the market! Look for ginger beer that’s made with real ginger, without artificial flavors or sweeteners. Here are a few brands we like:

Q Ginger Beer: This is our top choice! It has great flavor and is made with real ginger. It comes in small cans so you don’t have to open a large bottle. (That’s the biggest plus!)
Fever Tree Ginger Beer: Fever Tree also has great flavor and is our backup. It’s made with real ginger and has no artificial sweeteners.
More Ginger Beer Brands: Here’s a list of more top brands. Variations on the mule
There are endless variations on the Moscow mule! You can use various types of liquor to make different types of mules, or add fruit juices or herbs to vary the flavors. Here are some of our favorite ideas:

Kentucky Mule: Use bourbon for the vodka for a whiskey-forward variation.
Mexican Mule: Use tequila instead of vodka! The way the bite of the tequila interplays with the spicy ginger is irresistible.
Gin Gin Mule A modern classic, essentially a mashup of a mule and a Mojito.
Dark and Stormy: Use dark rum in a highball glass, and you’ve got another classic cocktail.
Mezcal Mule: Use tequila and mezcal for a smoky spin on the mule.
Irish Mule: Use Irish whiskey in place of of vodka: the spicy finish is irresistible.
Watermelon Mule or Apple Cider Mule These seasonal spins let you drink the mule all year long.
When to serve a Moscow mule
The Moscow mule is a classic vodka cocktail that’s delicious as it is versatile. It’s perfect for sipping as a:

Happy hour drink
Dinner party drink
Summer drink
Late night drinks drink
Guys or girls night drink
Cocktail hour drink
